Credentialing Standard
     Effective June 2025




                           1
Contents
1.0 The College of Applied Biologists ................................................................................................................................................... 3
2.0 Registration ................................................................................................................................................................................... 3
3.0 Registration Applications for Apply to Join or Reclassify ............................................................................................................... 3
4.0 College Accredited Programs – Stream 1........................................................................................................................................ 6
5.0 Credential Requirements for All Applications ............................................................................................................................... 6
6.0 Applied Biology Technician (ABT) and ABT in Training Application Requirements ........................................................................ 8
7.0 Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) and RBTech in Training Application Requirements .................................................. 11
8.0 Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) and Biologist in Training (BIT) Application Requirements ........................................ 13
9.0 Applied Biology – Limited Licensee (AB-LL.) Application Requirements ...................................................................................... 17
10.0       Options to Resolve Education Deficiencies ........................................................................................................................... 19
11.0       Steps Required After an Application is Approved ................................................................................................................. 19
12.0       Definitions ............................................................................................................................................................................. 19
APPENDIX A – Professional Practice Competencies and Competence Standard............................................................................... 21
APPENDIX B – Course Requirements and Definitions........................................................................................................................ 25
APPENDIX C – Registrant Application Checklists ............................................................................................................................... 31




                                                                                                                                                                                  2
1.0 The College of Applied Biologists
The College of Applied Biologists (the College) is the regulatory body for applied biology professionals in
British Columbia (BC) who work in the natural resource sector. The College has been granted authority
from the province of BC to register applied biology professionals, grant licenses and protected titles and
regulate its registrants under the Professional Governance Act, Professional Governance Regulations,
Applied Biologists Regulation and the College Bylaws.

2.0 Registration
This document is specific to the “Apply to Join” and “Reclassify” applications for registration.

Details on registration streams and associated requirements are provided below in section 5.0 and in
each registrant category section of this document (Sections 6.0 – 9.0).

Registration with the College requires the following:
    1. A completed application that meets the College’s requirements for the registrant category applied
        for (e.g., Applied Biology Technician)
    2. Completion of all mandatory training, and
   3. Paying all applicable fees (e.g., annual dues and seal)

The Registrar may approve an application for registration under Part 5 of the College Bylaws.

For details on how applications are assessed please refer to Policy 5 – 200 Registration Application
Assessment.

3.0 Registration Applications for Apply to Join or Reclassify
The application, assessment and registration process is completed online through the College’s portal
https://portal.cab-bc.org/applicants/start.

Tables 1.0 and 2.0 below summarize the application requirements for practicing registrants and in Training
registrants.

Practicing Registrants – are registrants who have met all the College’s education/training and experience
requirements in one of the following registrant categories:
    • Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio)
    • Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech)
     • Applied Biologist Limited License (AB-LL.)
     • Applied Biology Technician (ABT)




                                                                                                              3
 Table 1.0 Summary of the requirements for the RPBio, RBTech, ABT and AB-LL. application for
 registration with the College.

  Practicing Registrant            RPBio            RBTech                 AB-LL.           ABT
  Category
  Proof of                          Yes               Yes                   Yes             Yes
  Education/Training
  Experience                        Yes               Yes                   Yes             Yes
  Professional Practice             Yes               Yes                   Yes             Yes
  Competencies
  Professional Work                 Yes               Yes                   Yes             No
  Products
  References                        Yes               Yes                   Yes             Yes
  Indictable Offence                Yes               Yes                   Yes             Yes
  Declaration
  Application Fee                   Yes               Yes                   Yes             Yes


In Training Registrants – are registrants who have meet all the College’s education requirements and are
working towards fulfilling the experience requirements in one of the following registrant categories:
    • Biologist In training (BIT)
   •    Registered biology technologist in training (RBTech in Training)
   •    Applied biology technician in training (ABT in Training)

 Table 2.0 Summary of the requirements for the BIT, RBTech in Training and ABT in Training application
 for registration with the College.


  In Training Registrant                    BIT              RBTech in Training       ABT in Training
  Category
  Proof of Education/Training               Yes                     Yes                    Yes

  Indictable Offence Declaration            Yes                     Yes                    Yes

  Application Fee                           Yes                     Yes                    Yes



 Figures 1.0 and 2.0 outline the application and fee payment processes.




                                                                                                           4
                                Figure 1.0 College’s Application Process




A Completed application means the application fee has been paid and all documentation (e.g.,
transcripts, lead author declaration, references etc.) have been received. See Understanding your
application status for details.




                                                                                                    5
                                          Figure 2.0 College’s Fee Payment Schedule




*See Schedule 2 of the College Bylaws for details of fees.


 4.0 College Accredited Programs – Stream 1
 Accredited programs have met the education requirements set by the College in this Credential Standard
 for the registrant category the program is accredited for. Applicants can only apply through Stream 1 if
 they have completed/graduated from a College Accredited program during the timeframe of the
 program’s accreditation.

 5.0 Credential Requirements for All Applications
 5.1 Education/Training Requirements

 Each registrant application category requires proof of education (e.g., official transcripts, certificate, on the
 job training). These are summarized below in Table 3.0. Details of specific education requirements (e.g.,
 courses, training modules) for each registration category are provided in Sections 6.0 – 9.0..

 Table 3.0 Summary of the proof of education required for each category for registration with the College.

    Registrant Application                                   Proof of Education/Training Required
    Category                        Stream 1                     Stream          Stream 3               Stream 4
                                                                    2
    ABT                             Official                                                        Not Applicable
    ABT in Training                 Transcripts/Certification                Not Applicable
    RBTech                          Official Transcripts showing             Official Transcripts
    RBTech in Training              diploma(s) granted.                      Not Applicable
    RPBio                           Official Transcripts showing             Official               Official
                                    degree(s) granted.                       Transcripts            Transcripts


                                                                                                                     6
                                                                   showing                 showing M.Sc.
                                                                   degree(s)               &/or PhD
                                                                   granted.                degree(s) granted
                                                                                           in an applied
                                                                                           biology topic.
  Biologist in Training                                            Not Applicable
  (BIT)
  AB - LL                                                   AB – LL (Steam 1)
                                Proof of education that supports the limited license area being applied for


 Note:
 • An applicant with a diploma(s), degree(s) can apply for the ABT or ABT in Training category, if they
    meet the required course work/module requirements.
 • An applicant with a degree(s) can apply for the RBTech or RBTech in Training category, if they meet
    the required course requirements.


5.2 Experience
All practicing registrant applicants are required to demonstrate that they meet the experience
requirements for the registrant category they have applied for. Experience must fall within the definition
of the “practice of applied biology” in the Applied Biologists Regulation, which is the provision of
    (a) advice or services that
        (i) are based on biological sciences, and
        (ii) relate to aquatic or terrestrial ecosystems or the living organisms, habitats or processes of those
              ecosystems, or
    (b) advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph (a).


5.2.1 Volunteer Experience
Applicants can use volunteer experience towards meeting the experience requirement, if it falls within the
practice of applied biology as defined in the Applied Biologists Regulation.

5.2.2 Graduate Degree Experience
Applicants with a thesis-based Master of Science degree in an applied biology topic can claim 12 months to
meet the experience requirement.

Applicants with a Doctor of Philosophy – (PhD) degree in an applied biology topic can claim 24 months to
meet the experience requirement.

5.2.3 Registrant Experience
An applicant who is already a registrant with the College (or an equivalent professional regulator in
another jurisdiction) may claim all their applied biology experience gained while registered (pre- or post-
graduation).


5.3 Professional Practice Competencies
All practicing registrant applicants are required to demonstrate that they meet 1 of the three key
indicators of all 7 of the College’s Professional Practice Competencies (Appendix A). The College's

                                                                                                               7
Professional Practice Competencies are broadly encompassing and not limited to applied biology to
represent all the functions of a professional and can include those specific to an organization or employer.

5.4 Professional Work Products
Applicants for the following registrant categories are required to submit Professional Work Products (see
Section 13.0 for definition and examples of what the College accepts as a PWP) as part of their
application:
    • Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio)
    • Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech)
     • Applied Biologist Limited License (AB-LL)

Where a report has multiple authors, the role of the applicant must be corroborated by the lead author. A
lead author is sent an email directly from the online application and they receive a link directly to the lead
author section in the applicant’s application. They cannot see or have access to any other portion of the
application.

See specific registrant application requirements in Sections 6.0 – 9.0.


5.5 Reference Requirements

A reference needs to:
    • Confirm the applicant demonstrates the Professional Practice competencies defined by the College
    • Be knowledgeable of the applicant’s ability and work as an applied biology professional (i.e., they
        must be someone the applicant has worked with), and
    • Not be related to the applicant unless the relative is the supervising professional.

Note: The College recognizes the variety of experience and employer(s) an applicant may have. It is not
required that references be registrants of the College or be from different employers. Applicants are
encouraged to include references from more than one employer when possible.

A reference is sent an email directly from the online application. The reference(s) receives a link directly to
the reference section in the applicant’s application. They cannot see or have access to any other portion of
the application.

5.6 Mandatory Training
All applicants who have been approved are required to complete the College’s mandatory training as set
out by the College Bylaws.


6.0 Applied Biology Technician (ABT) and ABT in Training Application Requirements
There are three streams to registration in the ABT category (Figure 3.0). Streams 1 and 2 require education
and a minimum of 1 year of experience in applied biology in the 10 years prior to application. Stream 3
requires 3 years of experience in applied biology in the 10 years prior to application. Table 4.0 summarizes
the requirements for each stream.



                                                                                                             8
          Figure 3.0 Streams of Entrance for the Applied Biology Technician Registrant Category.




Table 4.0 provides the requirements for ABT and ABT in Training applicants for all 3 streams. An ABT in
Training application only needs to meet the academic requirement and will work on other requirements
(e.g., experience) during their training period.

Table 4.0 A Summary of the ABT and ABT in Training Application Requirements

  Requirements                        ABT                 ABT in Training                 ABT
                                               Streams 1 & 2                           Stream 3
  Academics                 A minimum of 200 hours or 5 instructional weeks
                            of course work, with or without a certificate,      Not Applicable
                            which includes courses or modules in each of the
                            following areas:
                              • Natural Resource Survey Skills
                              • Applied Biology Identification Skills
                              • Field Navigation
  Experience                ≥ 1 year of applied       Not Applicable            ≥ 3 years of applied
                            biology experience                                  biology experience
                            within the 10 years                                 within the 10 years
                            prior to application.                               prior to application.


                                                                                                          9
  Professional Practice      Demonstrate that you                                 Demonstrate that you
  Competencies               meet all the College’s                               meet all the College’s
                             Professional Practice                                Professional Practice
                             Competencies.                                        Competencies.
  References                 1                                                    2
  Complete the College’s       • Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct
  Mandatory Training           • Indigenous Awareness
  Courses                      • Legal Requirements


6.1 Proof of Education
 The applicant must submit official transcripts or a certificate demonstrating successful completion of a
 training course (diploma, degree(s)) from a recognized training or post-secondary institution which
 includes the course or course modules required as set out above.

6.2 Experience Requirements
Experience must align with the definition of the “practice of applied biology” as defined
in the Applied Biologists Regulation.

    •    Streams 1 and 2 - The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 1 year of work experience
         practicing applied biology within the 10 years prior to application.
    •    Stream 3 – The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 3 years’ experience practicing
         applied biology within the 10 years prior to application.

Additional information on experience requirements is set out in section 5.0.




                                                                                                            10
6.3 Professional Practice Competencies
Applicants of all streams must demonstrate how they meet 1 of the 3 key indicators of each of the
College’s Professional Practice Competencies.



7.0 Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) and RBTech in Training Application
Requirements
There are 3 streams to register as an RBTech:
   • Streams 1 and 2 require a diploma, courses in 5 areas (Table 5.0), and a minimum of 2 years’
        experience in applied biology in the 10 years prior to application.
   • Stream 3 requires 20 post-secondary courses including courses in 5 areas (Table 5.0) and a
        minimum of 3 years’ experience in applied biology in the 10 years prior to application.

Figure 4.0 illustrates the streams, and Table 5.0 summarizes the requirements for RBTech applications.

        Figure 4.0 Streams of Entrance for the Registered Biology Technologist Registrant Category.




                                                                                                         11
Table 5.0 Summary of the RBTech and RBTech in Training Application Requirements

 Requirements                       RBTech                 RBTech in                        RBTech
                                                            Training
                                          Streams 1 & 2                                   Stream 3
 Education/Training        • Diploma                                       Minimum of 20 courses, including
                           • Courses in each of the following              courses in each of the following
                             categories:                                   categories:
                              • Applied Biology                             • Applied Biology
                              • Communications                              • Communications
                              • Environmental Science                       • Environmental Science
                              • Field/Laboratory Techniques                 • Field/Laboratory Techniques
                              • Numeracy (Mathematics/Statistics)           • Numeracy
                                                                               (Mathematics/Statistics)
 Experience                ≥ 2 years of applied                            ≥ 3 years of applied biology
                           biology experience                              experience within the 10 years prior
                           within the 10 years prior                       to application.
                           to application.
 Professional Practice     Demonstrate that you        Not Applicable      Demonstrate that you meet all the
 Competencies              meet all the College’s                          College’s Professional Practice
 Refer to Section          Professional Practice                           Competencies.
                           Competencies.
 Professional Work         2 to 4 PWPs that meets                          2 to 4 PWPs that meets the criteria
 Products (PWPs) (see      the criteria below                              below
 below)
 References                2                                               2
 Complete the              • Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct
 College’s Mandatory       • Indigenous Awareness
 Training Courses          • Legal Requirements


7.1 Proof of Education
The applicant must submit official transcripts demonstrating successful completion of a diploma (or
degree(s)) or 20 completed courses from a recognized post-secondary institution which includes the
course requirements as set out above.

7.2 Experience Requirements
Experience must align with the definition of the “practice of applied biology” as defined
in the Applied Biologists Regulation.

    •    Streams 1 and 2 - The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 2 years (24 months)
         experience practicing applied biology within the 10 years prior to application. Up to 1 year
         (12 months) of this experience may be pre-diploma.
    •    Stream 3 – The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 3 years (36 months) experience
         practicing applied biology within the 10 years prior to application.

Additional information on experience requirements is set out in section 5.0.


                                                                                                          12
7.3 Professional Practice Competencies
Applicants of all streams must demonstrate how they meet 1 of the 3 key indicators of each of the
College’s Professional Practice Competencies.

7.4 Professional Work Products Requirements
Intent: The professional work product requirement is important to the RBTech application as it is a
mechanism for applicants to demonstrate a combination of their independent thought as an applied
biology professional, and how their practice in applied biology and professional competence align with the
College’s Professional Practice Competencies.

In their application, an applicant must:

1. Provide a minimum of 2 and up to a maximum of 4 separate professional work products in applied
   biology that, between the provided products, includes the following:
        • Method(s)
        • Data analysis within established standards, parameters, or guidelines
        • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations, and
        • Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert audience.


2. Explain how, between the professional work products, they meet at least one key indicator in each the
   following professional competencies:
        • Scientific Knowledge & Concepts
        • Laws, regulations & policy
        • Standards & Practices, and
        • Communication.


3. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the professional work product(s) submitted.


8.0 Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) and Biologist in Training (BIT)
 Application Requirements
There are 4 registration streams in the RPBio category:
   • Streams 1 and 2 require a bachelor’s or a master’s degree with 25 science courses, 13 in biology
        and several required courses in a variety of areas, and a minimum of 3 years’ experience in applied
        biology in the 10 years prior to application.
   • Stream 3 requires a bachelor’s or a master’s degree with 25 science courses, 13 in biology, and a
        minimum of 15 years’ experience in the practice of applied biology.
   • Stream 4 requires either a Master of Science degree or a Doctor of Philosophy degree in an applied
        biology topic, 25 science courses, 13 in biology, and a minimum of 13 or 11 years’ experience in
        the practice of applied biology (MSc or PhD, respectively).

Figure 5.0 illustrates the streams, and Table 6.0 summarizes the requirements for an RPBio application.


                                                                                                          13
Figure 5.0 Streams of Entrance for the Registered Professional Biologist Registrant Category.




                                                                                                14
Table 6.0 A Summary of the RPBio and Biologist in Training Application Requirements
 Requirements                RPBio              Biologist in                          RPBio
                                               Training (BIT)
                                   Streams 1 & 2                     Stream 3                   Stream 4
 Academics           • Bachelor’s or Master’s Degree            Bachelor’s or         Master of Science
                     • 25 Science Courses, 13 in biology        Master’s Degree       degree/PhD in an applied
                     • Core courses in the following:           with 25 Science       biology topic, with 25
                     1st year or higher                         Courses, 13 in        Science Courses & 13 in
                          • Communications                      biology.              biology.
                          • Chemistry
                          • Numeracy
                              (Mathematics/Statistics)
                      nd
                     2 year or higher
                          • Applied Biology
                          • Ecology
                          • Numeracy must be Statistics
                     3 of the following 2nd year or higher
                     courses:
                          • Cell Biology
                          • Genetics
                          • Physiology
                          • Systematics
                          • Evolution
 Experience          ≥ 3 years of applied     Not applicable    ≥ 15 years of        • Master of Science degree
                     biology experience                         applied biology        in an applied biology
                     within the 10 years                        experience             topic plus ≥ 13 years of
                     prior to application                                              applied biology
                                                                                       experience
                                                                                     • PhD in an applied biology
                                                                                       topic plus ≥ 11 years of
                                                                                       applied biology
                                                                                       experience
 Professional        Demonstrate that                           Demonstrate that you meet all the College’s
 Practice            you meet all the                           Professional Practice Competencies.
 Competencies        College’s
 Refer to Section    Professional
                     Practice
                     Competencies.
 Professional        2 to 4 PWPs that                        2 to 4 PWPs that meets the criteria below
 Work Products       meets the criteria
 (PWPs)              below
 References          3                                       3                   3
 Complete the        • Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct
 College’s           • Indigenous Awareness
 Mandatory           • Legal Requirements
 Training Courses



                                                                                                        15
8.1 Proof of Education
The applicant must submit official transcripts demonstrating successful completion of an undergraduate
orgraduate degree from a recognized post-secondary institution or in another biological science which
includes 25 science courses, 13 of which must be in biology plus additional course requirements as set out
above in Table 6.0.


8.2 Experience Requirements
Experience must align with the definition of the “practice of applied biology” as defined in the Applied
Biologists Regulation.

     •   Streams 1 and 2 - The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 3 years (36 months)
         experience practicing applied biology within the 10 years prior to application. Up to one
         year (12 months) of this experience may be pre-degree.
    •    Stream 3 – Bachelor’s or Master’s degree and ≥ 15 years (180 months) of applied biology
         experience. Up to one year (12 months) of this experience may be pre-degree.
    •    Stream 4 – Either:
           o a Master of Science degree in an applied biology topic and ≥ 13 years (156 months) of
               applied biology experience, OR
           o a PhD degree in an applied biology topic plus ≥ 11 years (132 months) of applied
               biology experience.
           Up to one year (12 months) of this experience may be pre-undergraduate degree.

Additional information on experience requirements is set out in section 5.0.

8.3 Professional Practice Competencies
Applicants of all streams must demonstrate how they meet 1 of the 3 key indicators of each of the
College’s Professional Practice Competencies.

8.4 Professional Work Products Requirements for RPBio application
Intent: The professional work product (PWPs) requirement is important to the RPBio application as it is a
mechanism for applicants to demonstrate a combination of their independent thought as an applied
biology professional, and how their practice in applied biology and professional competence align with the
College’s Professional Practice Competencies.

In their application, an applicant must:

1. Provide a minimum of 2 and up to a maximum of 4 separate professional work products in applied
   biology that, between the provided products, includes the following:
        • Method(s)
        • Data analysis
        • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
        • Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert audience.

 2. Explain how, between the professional work products, they meet at least one key indicator in each the
    following professional competencies (see Appendix A for definitions):


                                                                                                           16
        •   Scientific Knowledge & Concepts
        •   Laws, regulations & policy
        •   Standards & Practices
        •   Communication

3. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the work product(s) submitted.


9.0 Applied Biology – Limited Licensee (AB-LL.) Application Requirements

There is 1 stream of registration for the AB-LL. Registrant category. This category requires
education/training in the area of the limited license being applied for, and five years of experience in
applied biology, with a minimum of 2 years in the specific area of the Limited License application.

Figure 6.0 illustrates the registration process, and Table 7.0 summarizes the requirements for the AB-LL.

       Figure 6.0 Stream of Entrance for the Applied Biology – Limited Licensee Registrant Category.




                                                                                                            17
Table 7.0 Summary of the AB-LL Application Requirements


 Requirements                                            AB-LL.

 Education/Training                                      Proof of education that supports the license being
                                                         applied for
 Experience                                              ≥ 5 years of applied biology experience with 2
                                                         years’ experience specific to the area of the license
                                                         application
 Professional Practice Competencies                      Demonstrate that you meet all the College’s
                                                         Professional Practice Competencies
 Professional Work Products (PWPs)                       2 to 4 PWPs that meets the criteria below
 References                                              3
 Complete the College’s Mandatory Training               • Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct
 Courses                                                 • Indigenous Awareness
                                                         • Legal Requirements


9.1 Description of the specific area the limited license is for
Applicants must provide a description of the proposed specific area of the reserved practice the Limited
License (LL) is for.

9.2 Proof of Education/Training
The applicant must submit official documents demonstrating successful completion of education/training
in the specific area they are applying for. This could include official transcripts, certificate(s), diploma,
degree(s).


9.3 Experience Requirements
5 years’ experience in the practice of applied biology as defined in the Applied Biologists Regulation with 2
years’ experience in the specific area of the Limited License application.

9.4 Professional Work Products Requirements
Intent: The professional work product requirement is important to the AB-LL application as it is a
mechanism for applicants to demonstrate a combination of their independent thought as an applied
biology professional in the area of their LL application, and how their practice in applied biology, specific to
their LL application and professional competence align with the College’s Professional Practice
Competencies.

In their application, an applicant must:

1. Provide a minimum of two and up to a maximum of four separate professional work products in the
   specific area of applied biology that the limited license application is for, between the provided
   products, includes the following:
        • Method(s)
        • Data analysis within established standards, parameters &/or guidelines
        • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations, and

                                                                                                              18
          •   Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert audience.

2. Explain how, between the professional work products, they meet at least one key indicator in each the
   following professional competencies:
   • Scientific Knowledge & Concepts
   • Laws, regulations & policy
   • Standards & Practices
   • Communication

3. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the professional work product submitted.




10.0 Options to Resolve Education Deficiencies
 An applicant who is deficient in meeting the specific course requirements may resolve the deficiency by:

     a)   Challenging the course exam(s) through a recognized post-secondary institution
     b)   Successfully completing the GRE examination in the area(s) in which they are deemed deficient
     c)   Completing the missing course(s) at a recognized post-secondary institution, or
     d)   Obtaining course credit from a post-secondary institution through Prior Learning Assessment
          and Recognition (PLAR) if available.

11.0 Steps Required After an Application is Approved
After an application has been approved, applicants must:
    1. Pay for and complete the College’s mandatory training courses, and
    2. Pay fees (e.g., annual registration dues, seal fee).

Table 8.0 outlines the registrant categories with a seal fee applied. Annual dues are pro-rated to reflect the
period during the College’s fiscal year (January 1 to December 31) in which the application was approved.

Table 8.0 Summary of fee requirements for approved registrant categories.

  Practicing Registrant           RPBio             RBTech                AB-LL.                ABT
  Category
  Mandatory Training Fee                                            Yes
  Registration Fee                                                  Yes
  Seal Fee                                              Yes                                Not Applicable


Schedule 2 – Fees and Charges of the College Bylaws sets out the current fees.


12.0 Definitions
Accredited program - has met the standard education requirements set by the College of Applied


                                                                                                            19
Biologists for the registrant category the program is accredited for (e.g., RPBio, RBTech, ABT)

Communication - is written or presented to a non-expert audience (see definitions of ‘non-expert
audience’ below).

Conclusion(s) - a summation of outcomes of data analysis, along with an interpretation of significance and
implications.

Course - is defined as a one-semester course, which includes at least 3 lecture or lab hours per week

Data - facts, information, and/or statistics (e.g., measurements, metrics) collected for reference or
analysis.

Data Analysis – the study and/or examination of data applying logical techniques to describe and illustrate,
condense and recap, and evaluate data.

Methods – implementing a systematic or a particular form of procedure or process for accomplishing or
approaching something such as, a task (e.g., information/data gathering, statistical analysis).

Non-expert audience – an individual or individuals who is not a subject matter expert(s) in the topic being
communicated. This can include other applied biology professionals, clients, the public, other
professionals.

Official transcript(s) – means a transcript(s) issued by the granting institution directly or via a third party
(e.g., My eQuals, Mycreds, National Student Clearingouse etc.) that includes a record of courses, marks,
degrees, diploma or certificates or obtained from each university, college or training institute attended.
Degree(s) granted or any foreign education earned at a post- secondary institution outside of Canada or
the United States of America will be required to be evaluated by a credential evaluation service identified
by the College (e.g., World Education Services (WES), International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES), or
Comparative Education Service (CES)).

Professional Work Product(s) - includes but is not limited to a report, policy, assessment, plan, briefing
note, memorandum, a review report (e.g., literature review) or scientific publication(s), thesis,
dissertation, poster, presentation, email communication. Draft work products written by the applicant
such as draft report, draft briefing note are accepted as long as they meet the intent. Draft work products
are often provided to supervisors and others (e.g., clients, another professional signing off) for review and
may be changed by supervisors, higher-level staff within the applicant’s organization prior to being
finalized. Bachelor’s Honours Theses are accepted as a professional work product if they meet the
communication competency1. The College may accept other professional work products that meet the
requirements.

Recognized - means the academic institution has met a quality assurance programs as defined by the
British Columbia Council on Admission and Transfer (https://www.bccat.ca/system/accreditation) or
similar definition in another jurisdiction.

Recommendation – an informed suggestion regarding the best course of action.


1
    College’s Professional Competencies

                                                                                                              20
               APPENDIX A – Professional Practice Competencies and Competence Standard




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                                                                                                        V2.0 2022




PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE COMPETENCIES & COMPETENCE STANDARD
Fundamental principles of professional reliance are that all applied biology professionals meet high professional
standards such as competence, expertise and work within their own area(s) of practice and level(s) of competency.
A competency is more comprehensive than skill set(s) alone, it is measurable, assessable and verifiable.


The College of Applied Biologists (the College) uses a competency framework of seven (7) Professional Practice
Competencies (figure 1.0) each with their own key indicators, and a competence continuum (figure 2.0) to align
registrants’ skills, capabilities, knowledge and competence with their professional practice. The intent of the
competency framework, key indicators and competency continuum is to provide the College (the regulator),
registrants, employers and the public with clear and consistent expectations and an understanding of what is
required of an applied biology professional that is registered and certified by the College.

The Competency Framework, its Key Indicators and the Competence Continuum:
♦ Were developed to ensure that College registrants meet and maintain high level practice and competence
   standards to uphold and protect the public interest;
♦ Encompass the required credentials through the registration process to become a College registrant ; and
♦ Ensure registrants maintain and enhance the required credentials through the Continued Education, Audit and
   Practice Review Programs.


                                  Figure 1.0 Professional Practice Competencies.
The College uses the following key indicators (KIs) in each Professional Practice category to assess and verify
that a professional meets the minimum competency level requirement: Competent (Figure 2.0). College appli-
cants and registrants are required to demonstrate and maintain competence in at least one (1) key indicator in
each Professional Practice Competency category during the Registration, Audit and Practice Review processes.
A registrants Professional Practice Competencies and associated competence level (competent, proficient,
expert) (Figure 2.0) are acquired through knowledge (education & training), skills and abilities (work experience,
professional practice experience) in each of the Professional Practice Competency categories. The two are linked
together.

                                          2.0 Competency Continuum.




During the registration process an applicant is required to:
♦ Be respectful and professional while interacting with College Staff and employees throughout the process;
♦ Demonstrate they meet at least one (1) key indicator in each Professional Practice Competency category;
♦ Establish they have a minimum competence level of Competent in each competency category; and
♦ Provide References who can verify they meet the Professional Practice Competency categories and are com-
   petent.

The College:
♦ Assesses the application using the key indicators and competence level requirements;
♦ Verifies the information provided by the applicant through information provided by references; and
♦ Determines if the applicant is accepted or not accepted. If not accepted, the College provides information
   regarding any deficiency(ies) and associated resolution(s).

A Registrant is required to:
♦ Self-declare their area of expertise and associated competence level with each Professional Practice Compe-
   tency category;
♦ Continue to demonstrate they maintain competence with at least one (1) key indicator in each Professional
   Practice Competency category through the Audit and Practice Review Processes; and
♦ Maintain or enhance their competence and area(s) of expertise though the Continuing Education Program.

The College:
♦ Assesses and verifies a Registrants Professional Practice Competencies through the Audit and Practice Re-
   view processes, using the key indicators, competent level requirements and Continuing Education activities.
                                   APPENDIX B – Course Requirements and Definitions
        The following table summarizes the courses required for each registrant category and associated streams
        that require specific academic courses.

          Academic Requirements                ABT/ABT in          RBTech/RBTech in         RPBio/Biologist in       RPBio
                                                Training                Training             Training (BIT) -    Streams 3 & 4
                                              Streams 1 & 2         Streams 1, 2 & 3         Streams 1 & 2
          Communication                       Not Applicable              Yes                      Yes               Not
          Numeracy 1st year or                                            Yes                      Yes            Applicable
          higher (mathematics
          /statistics)
          Applied Biology and                                             Yes                      Yes
          Management 2nd year or
          higher
          Science Courses                                         Will accept to meet            Yes - 25           Yes - 25
          Biology Courses                                            the 20 post-                Yes - 13           Yes - 13
                                                                  secondary course
                                                                    requirements
          Chemistry 1st year or                                    No - will accept to             Yes               Not
          higher                                                   meet the 20 post-                              Applicable
                                                                   secondary course
          Ecology 2nd year or                                                                      Yes
                                                                     requirements
          higher
          Statistics 2nd year or                                                                   Yes
          higher
          Environmental Science                                           Yes                Will accept to
          Field/Laboratory                                                Yes               meet the science
                                                                                            or biology course
          Techniques
                                                                                              requirements
          Natural resource survey                   Yes           Will accept to meet
          skills                                                     the 20 post-
                                                    Yes           secondary course
          Applied biology
                                                                    requirements
          identification skills
          Field navigation                          Yes
                                  3 of the Following 5 2nd year or higher Biology courses
          1. Genetics                         Not Applicable      Will accept to meet              Yes
          2. Cellular                                                the 20 post-                  Yes
                                                                  secondary course
          3. Systematics or                                                                        Yes
                                                                    requirements
             Classification
          4. Physiology                                                                            Yes
          5. Evolution                                                                             Yes




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                                                   Course Definitions
        The following course definitions are provided to assist applicants to understand the College’s academic
        requirements.

        Biology courses (general)
        Biology courses must include a majority (>50%) of biological concepts, theory, or practice, from a range
        of disciplines such as geography, environmental science, forestry and forest sciences, ecological
        restoration, and environmental engineering.

        Science courses (general)
        Science courses must include a majority (>50%) of scientific concepts, theory, or practice, and may
        include subject areas such as physics, chemistry, mathematics, geology, geography, environmental
        science, forestry and forest sciences, ecological restoration, and engineering.

        Applied Biology and Management
        A course in applied biology will focus on the application of biological, ecological or socioeconomic
        principles, including law and governance, to the management or conservation of biological resources,
        elements or systems. The course can focus on a specific group of organisms or consider broader
        ecosystem-level issues, however, the majority of the course content (i.e., >80%) must consider biological
        resources, elements or systems, not topics related to the management or conservation of abiotic
        resources or the more general idea of environmental sustainability.

        Courses that typically meet the requirements for this subject category include Conservation Biology,
        Environmental Biology, Wildlife Management, Fisheries Management, Range Management, Natural
        Resource Policy, or Landscape Ecology.

        The following list represents the general range of topics of Applied Biology and Management:
            •    Discussion of the application of biological and ecological principles on the use, management or
                 conservation of biological resources
            •    Discussion of the management or conservation of biological resources
            •    Discussion of law or governance with direct application to biological resources
            •    Discussion of the principles of sustainability in the context of biological resources

        Applied biology identification skills
        Courses or a course module should cover identification of flora and fauna such as plants, fish, mammals,
        birds, insects and the differences between groups (e.g., trees, shrubs, mosses). Course or course module
        can also include collection, labeling and preservation of a specimen(s).

        Cellular
        A cellular course should include cellular chemistry, bioenergetics, enzyme production and function,
        membranes and cell signaling, membrane transport processes, signal transduction mechanisms,
        extracellular structures (adhesions, junctions, etc.), chemotrophic energy metabolism, intracellular
        compartments, phototrophic metabolism, structural basis of cellular information, sexual reproduction,
        gene expression – transcription and protein synthesis, regulation of gene expression, cytoskeletal

#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
        systems, as well as motility and contractility. Courses that would meet this requirement include Cell
        Biology, Molecular Biology, and Biochemistry.

        The following list represents the general range of topics of Cellular biology.

        • Cell chemistry, bioenergetics, enzyme                     • Chemotrophic energy metabolism,
          structure and function                                      phototrophic metabolism,
        • Membrane transport                                          structural basis of cellular
        • Membranes and signal transduction                           information
          mechanisms                                                • Nucleic acid structure and function –
        • Extracellular structures (adhesions, junctions,             replication, transcription, translation
          etc.)                                                       and regulation ofgene expression
        • Intracellular compartments                                • Cytoskeleton systems, motility and
                                                                      contractility


        Chemistry
        Chemistry courses can be survey-level first year courses. Courses in chemistry should cover classification
        of matter, periodic properties of elements, atomic and molecular structure, stoichiometry, chemical
        reactions, thermochemistry, chemical bonding and an introduction to organic chemistry. Completion of
        the lab component is not mandatory.

        Communications
        First year or higher courses that focus on communication skills may include technical writing, scientific
        writing, or English composition. The aim of this requirement is to ensure the applicant has the ability to
        provide clear and concise communications which can be interpreted by people at all levels of a decision-
        making process.

        More specifically the graduating student should demonstrate competence in some or all of the following
        topic areas:
           • Development of skills in research and writing academic essays or reports
           • Technical writing skills including memos, briefing notes, technical reports and bulletins
           • Development of grammatical skills, organizational skills and appropriate use of vocabulary
           • Prepare and deliver oral presentations


        Ecology
        A course in ecology will consider the relationships between living organisms and the abiotic systems
        within which they occur. Courses focused on ecology can consider a broad range of content from the
        description and distribution of biomes at the ecosystem level to the factors and theory underlying
        population and community dynamics. Courses in specific areas of ecology such as population,
        community or microbial ecology are acceptable as are courses that take a more general perspective on
        ecology or ecosystem-level processes.

        The following list represents the general range of topics of Ecology.
            • The relationships between living organisms and the abiotic systems within which they occur
            • Description and distribution of biomes at the ecosystem level
            • Understanding of the factors and theory underlying population and community dynamics

#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
        Evolution
        Courses in evolution will cover the contemporary theory of evolution, such as variation, descent, natural
        selection, adaptation, speciation, and extinction on both micro- and macro-evolutionary scales. Topics
        include origins of living systems; species and their origins and extinctions; adaptation and constraints;
        systematics; evolutionary ethics.

        Examples of courses that may meet these criteria include but are not limited to:
        • Evolution                                              • Evolutionary Genetics
        • Diversity and Evolution                                • Ecology and Evolution

        Environmental Science
        A course in environmental science will discuss multi-disciplinary topics related to natural resource use and
        sustainability. The course may be as specific as discussing one resource, to the broader global scale of
        environmental sustainability.

        Courses that typically meet the requirements for this subject category include Fish and wildlife ecology,
        environmental legislation and policy, earth science, soils, hydrology, climatology.
        The following list represents the general range of topics of Environmental Science.

            •    Environmental sustainability                           •   Ecological restoration
            •    Natural resource management                            •   Legislation and policy



        Field/Laboratory Techniques
        A course in field/laboratory techniques will focus on the skills and techniques required either in the field or
        laboratory (lab) for the practice of applied biology as defined in the Applied Biologists Regulation. There
        should be a focus on following standardized data collection methodology.

        Courses that typically meet the requirements for this subject category include chemistry with a lab
        component, biology with a lab component, field studies, surveying, maps and navigation, fish or plant
        identification.

        The following list represents the general range of topics of Field/Laboratory Techniques.
            • Field survey methods                                       • GPS data collection
            • Laboratory methods                                         • Ecosystem classification


        Field Navigation
        Courses or a course module should cover navigation skills required for field work. This may include the use of
        and interpretation of (hardcopy and digital) maps, compasses, GPS systems (handheld and software), hip chain,
        navigation data collection and storage.

        Genetics
        Courses in genetics should cover structure and function of genes, chromosomes and genomes, biological
        variation resulting from recombination, mutation, and selection, population genetics, use of genetic
        methods to analyze protein function, gene regulation and inherited disease.


#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
        Examples of courses that meet these criteria include Genetics, Molecular Genetics, or Genomics.


        Natural Resource Survey Skills
        Courses or a course module should cover data collection (e.g., hard copy and/or digital), proper field note
        taking, common field equipment requirements, use, maintenance and care (e.g., calibration, storage), quality
        assurance and data integrity and security.

        Numeracy (Mathematics)
        Mathematics courses need to be at a first year or higher university level. Introductory courses in
        calculus, applied calculus, finite math, linear algebra or a fist year statistics course will generally meet this
        requirement. Technical math courses may not meet the requirement unless they transfer to an
        equivalent first year math course at a college or university through a recognized transfer agreement.


        Numeracy (Statistics)
        A course in statistics will include applications of parametric and non-parametric statistical methods.

        The following list represents the general range of topics found in a Statistics course. It is not expected
        that all topics will be addressed during a major or degree. However, it is expected that graduating
        students will engage with enough topics to gain fundamental knowledge necessary to be competent in
        this area.

            • Descriptive statistics and probability                  •    Experimental and sampling design
            • Types of distributions                                  •    Analysis of variance, regression and
            • Hypothesis testing on means and                              correlation
              proportions                                             •    Understand or conduct survival analyses

        Physiology
        A course in physiology will focus on the relationship between the structure and functioning of individual
        organisms relative to the environments they occupy. The majority of course content (i.e. >80%) should
        consider the physiology of the organism in the context of environmental responses and/or the interaction
        between anatomical structure and life history including adaptive behaviour. The course can include the
        study of a single taxonomic group or a broader perspective across a number of Kingdoms.

        The following table represents the general range of topics of cell, animal, or plant physiology courses.


           Cell Physiology Course                 Animal Physiology Course             Plant Physiology Course
                                                  (including human physiology)
           •   Structure and function of         • Principles of homeostasis           •   Mechanisms and
               the cytoskeleton                  • Discussions of                          regulation of functional
           •   Structure and function of             cardiovascular systems                processes contributing
               the cell membrane                 • Discussions of respiratory              to assimilation,
           •   Structure and function of             system                                transport and
               cell organelles                   • Discussion of                           utilization of water,
           •   Topics on cell dynamics and           osmoregulatory system                 mineral nutrients and
                                                                                           carbon
#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                                                                                     •   Understanding of cell




               bioenergetics                    •   Discussions of endocrine             division, sexual and asexual
           •   Topics on regulation of              system                               reproduction
               cellular activities              •   Discussions of excitable         •   Understanding of
                                                    membranes of nerve and               differentiation and functions
                                                    muscle                               of various tissue types
                                                •   Discussions of reproduction      •   Understanding of the action
                                                                                         of major growth regulators
                                                                                         and photomorphogenesis



        Systematics or Classification
        A course in systematics or classification will focus on the nomenclature, identification, and categorization
        of organisms from within one or more taxonomic groups. Course content often includes a description of
        the unique anatomy or other differentiating characteristics of the organisms under study. Courses in
        Systematics or Classification may require students to develop a collection of specimens (e.g. herbarium)
        or develop the skills to identify individual species or genera from a broader set of related organisms.

        The following list represents the general range of topics of systematics or classification.
            • Nomenclature, identification and categorization within one or more taxonomic group
            • Description of unique anatomy or other differing characteristics
            • Development of a collection of specimens or development of skills to identify species

        Examples of courses that typically meet this subject category include:
        • Invertebrate Zoology                                   • Herpetology
        • Vertebrate Zoology                                     • Mammalogy
        • Vascular Plants                                        • Phylogenetics
        • Non-Vascular Plants                                    • Forest Classification and Silvics
        • Ornithology




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                                  APPENDIX C – Registrant Application Checklists

                   Applied Biology Technician (ABT) and ABT in Training Streams 1 and 2 Checklist

                                      Applied Biology Technician (ABT) and ABT in Training
                                                                                    ABT Streams   ABT in Training
                                       Requirement:
                                                                                        1&2          Streams
                                                                                        Y/N            1&2
                                                                                                       Y/N
                                              Education/Training
          ≥ 200 hours or 5 instructional weeks of course work with or without a
          certificate
          Including courses or course modules in each of the following areas:
             Natural resource survey skills
             Applied biology identification skills
             Field navigation
             Experience - meets the practice of applied biology (Applied Biologists Regulation)   Not Applicable
          12 months experience in applied biology in the 10 years prior to
          application
                                     Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          1 Reference to support Professional Practice Competencies




                                   Applied Biology Technician (ABT) Stream 3 Checklist

                                                 Applied Biology Technician (ABT)
                                                Requirement                                        Stream 3
                                                                                                      Y/N
                                                       Education/Training
          36 months (≥3 years) experience in applied biology in the last years prior to
          application
                                              Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          2 References to support Professional Practice Competencies




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
           Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) and RBTech in Training Streams 1 and 2 Checklist

          Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) and RBTech in Training           RBTech       RBTech in Training
                                  Requirements                                   Streams 1 & 2     Streams 1 & 2
                                                                                      Y/N               Y/N
                                          Education/Training
          Diploma
          Required Courses:
             Communications
             Mathematics/Statistics (Numeracy)
             Environmental Science
             Field/Laboratory Techniques
             Applied Biology and Management
            Experience - meets the practice of applied biology (Applied Biologists Regulation)    Not Applicable
          ≥ 24 months (≥ 2 years) experience in applied biology in the 10
          years prior to application
                                     Professional Work Products (PWPs)
          1. Do your PWPs meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional
          Practice Competences
          • Scientific Knowledge
          • Laws, Regulations and Policies
          • Standards & Practices
          • Communication
          And include the following:
          • Methods
          • Data analysis within established standards, parameters &/or
              guidelines
          • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
          • Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert
              audience.
          2. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the
          professional work product(s) submitted
                                     Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          2 References to support Professional Practice Competencies




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                              Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) Stream 3 Checklist

                  Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) Requirement                         Stream 3
                                                                                                  Y/N
                                                      Education/Training
          ≥2O Post Secondary Courses
          Required Courses:
            Communications
            Mathematics/Statistics (Numeracy)
            Environmental Science
            Field/Laboratory Techniques
            Applied Biology and Management
                        Experience - meets the practice of applied biology (Applied Biologists Regulation)
          24 months’ experience in applied biology in the 10 years prior to
          application
                                              Professional Work Products (PWPs)
          1. Do your PWPs meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional Practice Competences
          • Scientific Knowledge
          • Laws, Regulations and Policies
          • Standards & Practices
          • Communication
          And include the following:
          • Methods
          • Data analysis within established standards, parameters &/or
              guidelines
          • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
          • Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert
              audience.
          2. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the professional
          work product(s) submitted
                                              Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          2 References to support Professional Practice Competencies




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                        Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) and Biologist in Training (BIT)
                                              Streams 1 and 2 Checklist

              Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) and           RPBio Streams 1 and 2     BIT Streams 1 and 2
                 Biologist in Training (BIT) Requirements                      Y/N                     Y/N
                                             Education/Training
          Bachelor’s or Master’s degree
          25 Science Courses
          13 Biology Courses
          Core Course Requirements
          Communications (1styear or higher)
          Chemistry (1styear or higher)
          Numeracy (1styear or higher)
          Statistics (2nd year or higher)
          Applied Biology or Management (2nd year or higher)
          Ecology (2nd year or higher)
          Do you have 3 of the 5 following courses (2nd year
          or higher):
          Genetics
          Cellular
          Systematics
          Physiology
          Evolution
          Experience - meets the practice of applied biology (Applied Biologists Regulation)     Not Applicable
          36 months’ experience in the 10 years prior to
          application
                                     Professional Work Products (PWPs)
          1. Do your PWPs meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional
          Practice Competences
          • Scientific Knowledge
          • Laws, Regulations and Policies
          • Standards & Practices
          • Communication
          And include the following:
          • Methods
          • Data analysis
          • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
          • Communicates technical scientific information
              to a non-expert audience.
          2. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each
          of the professional work product(s) submitted
                                     Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          3 References to support Professional Practice
          Competencies



#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                              Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) Stream 3 Checklist

                                                                                               Stream 3
                  Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) Requirement
                                                                                                  Y/N
                                                      Education/Training
          Bachelor’s or Master’s degree
          25 Science Courses
          13 Biology Courses
                       Experience - meets the practice of applied biology (Applied Biologists Regulation)
          Degree plus ≥ 15 years (180 months) of applied biology experience
          Professional Work Products (PWPs)
          1. Do your PWP meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional Practice Competences
          • Scientific Knowledge
          • Laws, Regulations and Policies
          • Standards & Practices
          • Communication
          And include the following:
          • Methods
          • Data analysis
          • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
          • Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert
              audience.

          2. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the professional
          work product(s) submitted
                                              Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          3 References to support Professional Practice Competencies




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                              Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) Stream 4 Checklist

                                                                                            Streams 3 & 4
                  Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) Requirement:
                                                        Education/Training
          Master of Science (MSc) &/or Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in an
          applied biology topic
          25 Science Courses
          13 Biology Courses
                        Experience - meets the practice of applied biology (Applied Biologists Regulation)
          MSc plus 13 years (156 months) of applied biology experience
          PhD plus 11 years (122 months) of applied biology experience
                                               Professional Work Products (PWPs)
          1. Do your PWP meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional Practice Competences
          meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional Practice Competences
          Scientific Knowledge
          Laws, Regulations and Policies
          Standards & Practices
          Communication
          And include the following:
          Methods
          Data analysis
          Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
          Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert
          audience.
          2. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the professional
          work product(s) submitted
                                               Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          3 References to support Professional Practice Competencies




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
                                Applied Biology – Limited Licensee Application Checklist

                     Applied Biology – Limited Licensee Requirements                             Y/N
                                                   Education/Training
          Proof of education that supports the license being applied for
                                                        Experience
          ≥ 5 years (≥ 60 months) of applied biology experience as defined in the
          Applied Biologists Regulation with 2 years in the specific area of the
          license being applied for
                                           Professional Work Products (PWPs)
          1. Do your PWPs meet 1 of the key indicators for each of the following Professional Practice
          Competences
          • Scientific Knowledge
          • Laws, Regulations and Policies
          • Standards & Practices
          • Communication
          And include the following:
          • Methods
          • Data analysis within established standards, parameters &/or
              guidelines
          • Conclusion(s) and/or Recommendations
          • Communicates technical scientific information to a non-expert
              audience.
          2. Describe the purpose/intent/background of each of the professional
          work product(s) submitted
                                           Professional Practice Competencies
          Meets all 7 Professional Practice Competencies
          3 References to support Professional Practice Competencies




#310-1207 Douglas Street, Victoria BC V8W 2E7
T 250.383.3306 | www.cab-bc.org
